---
layout: page
title: About
last_modified_date: Sun Nov 26 19:33:49 2023
description: >-
    Fun description of the course
---

# About this class

![https://xkcd.com/538/](https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/security.png)

It was a dark and stormy night, Heimdallr, the guardian of the gods, kept a
watchful eye on the Bifrost bridge. “Could it be tonight? Would Loki do it? I
can feel it coming. Ragnarok”, said Heimdallr to himself. Thoughts of carnage
and destruction occupied his ever-observing head. He had a disturbing feeling in
his gut that something was going to happen tonight, and he needed to let the
gods know about it.

And finally, there it was, he could see it on the horizon: the giant head of the
wolf, Fenrir, alongside his father, the deceiver Loki. Hel, the goddess of the
underworld, can be seen leading the army of the dead. “It is time, I must send a
message to Odin and the gods to prepare for the final battle”, said Heimdallr. 

As he was typing the message on his iPhone 13Pro, a thought popped into his
head: “How can I tell Odin without anyone intercepting the message”? Loki was
known to have hired a band of hackers to support his war efforts. Furthermore,
how can Odin know that it was Heimdallr who wrote the message?  How could he
stop Loki’s script kiddies from impersonating him in an email or a message? How
can he make sure that the tunnel to Asgard was safe and not under attack? A
moment of panic took over Heimdallr, **how can he send sensitive information on
an untrusted network?**

In this course, we will set up to help the Norse gods by exploring how Heimdallr
can send a private message, in a world that is increasingly public and under
attack. We will take a look at this problem from two perspectives: (1) Loki’s
perspective, who is trying to intercept and exploit any messages sent to the
Gods, and (2) Heimdallr and the gods’ perspective, who are trying to secure
their messages from Loki’s army. 

Just like Heimdallr and the gods, we find ourselves today in a society that
increasingly puts trust in the Internet, a network that is not worthy of that
trust. The Internet was designed with the end-to-end principle in mind; push the
complexity into the endpoints as much as possible, keeping the intermediary
nodes (core routers, switches, etc.) as simple as possible. This is great and
all, but it renders the medium of communication unreliable and untrustworthy.
Malicious actors can intercept traffic, change network packets, and masquerade
as other users or as Internet authorities. The process of ensuring private
communication over an untrusted network is the main topic of this class. 

